# Changelog

## [0.8.2] - 2022-02-22

### Changed
- Sets officially the minimal supported Rust version to 1.58.
- Turtle and TriG: Fixes parsing of prefixes named like a keyword (`prefix`, `base`, `graph`, `true` and `false`).


## [0.8.1] - 2022-01-17

### Changed
- Upgrades `quick-xml` to 0.27.


# Changelog

## [0.8.0] - 2022-12-18

### Added
- Generalized RDF: Quoted triples are now allowed to contain generalized terms.
- `GeneralizedNQuadsParser` for NQuads syntax with generalized RDF (all terms might be IRIs, blank nodes, literals, variables or quoted triples).
- XML: Properly resolves already declared entities in entity declarations.

### Removed
- `From<Subject>` and `From<Term>` for `GeneralizedTerm`, `TryFrom<GeneralizedTerm>` for `Subject` and `Term`. Conversions between `Triple`, `Quad` and `GeneralizedQuad`.

### Changed
- Upgrades `quick-xml` to 0.26


## [0.7.3] - 2022-07-09

### Changed
- Adds `RdfXmlParser::buffer_position`.


## [0.7.2] - 2022-06-11

### Changed
- Upgrades `quick-xml` dependency of `rio_xml` to 0.23.


## [0.7.1] - 2022-03-25

### Added
- `TurtleParser::prefixes()` and `TriGParser::prefixes()` to fetch the list of IRI prefixes in the parsed file.


## [0.7.0] - 2022-03-05

### Removed
- Adapters for [sophia_api](https://github.com/pchampin/sophia_rs).
- Support of [oxiri](https://github.com/oxigraph/oxiri) 0.1.

### Changed
- Formatters now flushes when the `finish` method is called.
- The `NTriplesFormatter` and `NQuadsFormatter` `finish` method is also now fallible.


## [0.6.2] - 2022-01-11

### Added
- Support of [oxiri](https://github.com/oxigraph/oxiri) 0.2.

### Changed
- The parsers now crashes before a possible stack overflow error when ready too many nested anonymous blank nodes, collections or RDF-star nested triples.


## [0.6.1] - 2021-07-28

### Added
- Support of [sophia_api](https://github.com/pchampin/sophia_rs) 0.7.

### Changed
- The Turtle/TriG parsers now enforce that named blank node identifiers do not collide with the identifiers auto generated by Rio.


## [0.6.0] - 2021-07-01

### Added
- Support of [RDF-star](https://w3c.github.io/rdf-star/cg-spec/) model.
- Support of [RDF-star concrete syntaxes](https://w3c.github.io/rdf-star/cg-spec/#concrete-syntaxes): NTriples, NQuads, Turtle and TriG now support RDF-star by default.

### Changed
- The `Triple`s and `Quad` subject has the type `Subject` (union of `NamedNode`, `BlankNode` and `Triple`).
- The `Quad` graph name has the type `Option<GraphName>` (union of `NamedNode`, `BlankNode` and the default graph).
- Small optimization in formatters.
- `Triple` and `Quad` formatting do not output training dot.
- RDF/XML parser keeps spaces at the beginning and the end of parsed values (literals...).


## [0.5.3] - 2021-03-10

### Changed
- RDF/XML parser now resolves custom XML entities
- Upgrades `quick_xml` dependency to 0.22. This release fixes wasm compilation problems


## [0.5.2] - 2021-02-19

### Added
- `RdfXmlSerializer::with_indentation` to format RDF/XML with indentation

### Changed
- Fixes a bug in RDF/XML formatting where ":" was used in local names
- Upgrades `quick_xml` dependency to 0.21


## [0.5.1] - 2021-01-01

### Changed
- Upgrades `quick_xml` dependency to 0.20
- Improves code style


## [0.5.0] - 2020-08-08

### Added
- Model structures and parsers now implement [Sophia](https://crates.io/crates/sophia_api) traits. This is disabled by default and hidden behind the `sophia` feature.
- `Into<std::io::Error>` is now implemented by `TurtleError` and `RdfXmlError` for easy conversions.

### Removed
- Removes `language_tag` and `iri` from `rio_api`. These modules are now the crates [`oxiri`](https://crates.io/crates/oxiri) and [`oxilangtag`](https://crates.io/crates/oxilangtag).

### Changed
- `base_iri` parameter of parser constructors is now taking values of type `Option<Iri<String>>` instead of `&str`.
- Parser constructors are now returning `Self` and not `Result<Self>`.
- RDF/XML serializers now use `std::io::Error` error type instead of `rio_xml::RdfXmlError` because only I/O related errors might be returned.
- RDF/XML serializer now tries to extract predicate prefixes.
- Use `u64` instead of `usize` to report file positions in order to support parsing big files on 32 bits systems.


## [0.4.2] - 2020-04-04
- Normalizes all language tags to lowercase in the `rio_turtle` and `rio_xml` crates.
- Introduces the `LanguageTag` struct to parse and normalize case of language tags.
- Fixes Turtle parsing when the parser look ahead needs to span multiple lines.
- Makes `Iri` implement `AsRef<str>` and `FromStr`.


## [0.4.1] - 2020-03-19
- Makes `Iri` allow resolving against base IRIs with not hierarchical path (like `file:foo`).
- Upgrades `quick-xml` dependency to 0.18.


## [0.4.0] - 2020-01-07
- Adds "generalized" RDF support and generalized Trig parser behind a "generalized" feature flag.
- Allows to recover NTriples and NQuads parser errors, the parser jumps to the next line if the current line parsing fail.
- Makes `Iri` parser do the full IRI validation.


## [0.3.1] - 2019-09-02

### Added
- `Iri::as_str` and `Display` implementation to `rio_api`.


## [0.3.0] - 2019-08-28

### Added
- `TriplesFormatter` and `QuadsFormatter` with implementations for NTriples, NQuads, Turtle, TriG and RDF/XML.
- `Iri` to `rio_api` that allows to do partial IRI validation and resolution.
- `ParseError::textual_position` that allows to get the error position from a `TurtleError` or a `RdfXmlError`.

### Changed
- `TripleParser` have been renamed to `TriplesParser` for consistency.
- `QuadParser` have been renamed to `QuadsParser` for consistency.
- `TriplesParser::parse_step` and `TriplesParser::parse_all` `on_triple` callbacks should now return a `Result`.
  It allows library user to return more easily errors from their callback code.
  The same change have been applied to `QuadsParser`.
- Literals formatting only escape the characters required by the canonical NTriples syntax.


## [0.2.0] - 2019-08-11

### Added
- `Quad` struct and `QuadParser` trait to `rio_api`.
- N-Quads (`NQuadsParser`) and TriG (`TriGParser`) parsers to `rio_turtle`.
- `rdf_xml` crate with an RDF/XML parser.

### Changed
- `\r` characters could also end comments in Turtle/TriG.
- Fixes IRI parsing when the IRI has an authority and a query and/or fragment but no path.
- Do not allow "[] ." lines in Turtle.
- Minor optimisations to the Turtle parser.


## [0.1.0] - 2019-07-28

### Added
- `rio_api` crate with `Triple` struct and `TripleParser` trait.
- `rio_turtle` crate with N-Triples (`TurtleParser`) and Turtle (`TurtleParser`).
